2 – Build an Intel® Edison Image using bitbake
==============================================

Building a standard Intel® Edison image requires downloading and
installing several prerequisite packages. These instructions are valid
for a recent Ubuntu Linux\* distribution and should be valid for other
distributions with minor changes.

Make sure your working directory is not part of an encrypted file
system, such as eCryptFS. Because encrypted file systems restrict file
length, the build will fail.

To build a standard Intel® Edison image, do the following:

1.  Install the prerequisite packages with the following command:\
     sudo apt-get install build-essential git diffstat gawk chrpath
    texinfo libtool gcc-multilib
2.  Download the BSP source package edison-src.tgz from the Intel®
    Edison Software Downloads page. The package includes the full Yocto
    environment, and Intel® Edison-specific Yocto recipes to build the
    image (including the Linux kernel), a bootloader, and all necessary
    packages. Download the BSP source package to your working directory
    and decompress it.\
     tar xvf edison-src.tgz\
     cd edison-src/
3.  Use the setup.sh script to initialize the build environment for
    Intel® Edison. To create download and sstate directory, you can use
    mkdir command:\
     mkdir bitbake\_download\_dir\
     mkdir bitbake\_sstate\_dir\
     ./meta-intel-edison/setup.sh
    --dl\_dir=\<=/\<path\_to\>/bitbake\_download\_dir\
     –-sstate\_dir=\<=/\<path\_to\>/bitbake\_sstate\_dir\
     Optionally, you can move your download and build cache (also called
    sstate) directories from the default location under the build
    directory, using the --dl\_dir and --sstate\_dir options. Doing this
    will make it easier to share this data between build environments,
    and allow much faster build and download time when rebuilding the
    full image, even after a full manual cleanup (by means of deleting
    everything under your build directory). To create the sstate
    directory, use the mkdir command:\
     mkdir bitbake\_download\_dir\
     mkdir bitbake\_sstate\_dir
4.  Configure the shell environment with the source command below. After
    the command executes, the directory changes to the edison-src/build
    folder.\
     source poky/oe-init-build-env
5.  Now you are ready to build the full Intel® Edison image with the
    bitbake command:\
     bitbake edison-image

Building all the packages from scratch can take up to 5 or 6 hours,
depending on your host. After the first build (provided you have not
done any major cleanups), you can expect much faster rebuilds, depending
on your host and the amount of changes. When the bitbake process
completes, images to flash are created in the
*edison-src/build/tmp/deploy/images/edison* directory. To simplify the
flash procedure, run the script below to copy the necessary files to the
*build/toFlash* directory.

../meta-intel-edison/utils/flash/postBuild.sh

The images are ready to flash on the Intel® Edison Development Board.
Refer to the [GSG] for details on the flashing procedure.

2.1 – Build the Intel® Edison native SDK {#section2-1}
----------------------------------------

To cross-compile native applications for your image, you must generate
an SDK containing a cross-compiler toolchain and sysroot. You can
generate a full SDK for the Intel® Edison Development Board with the
following command:

bitbake edison-image -c populate\_sdk

This bitbake command creates the SDK installer script:

ls tmp/deploy/sdk\
 poky-edison-eglibc-x86\_64-edison-image-core2-32-toolchain-1.6.1.sh
