Creating Custom Intel® Edison Images
====================================

This section explains how to customize standard Linux\* images for the
Intel® Edison platform.

3.1 – Adding standard Yocto packages in the image
-------------------------------------------------

Yocto comes with a large set of recipes allowing you to simply add
packages to our image. The available packages are on
[http://packages.yoctoproject.org](http://packages.yoctoproject.org/).
In order to add a package to our image, you simply need to add it to the
*IMAGE\_INSTALL* variable. For example, if you want to add the lib PNG
to the image, add the following line to the
*edison-src**/meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/recipes-core/images/edison-image.bb*
file:

IMAGE\_INSTALL += “libpng”

Rebuild the image to have libpng included in it.

If you need to add patches to existing upstream sources, consult the
Yocto documentation [YDM].

3.2 – Excluding packages from the image {#section3-2}
---------------------------------------

To exclude unnecessary packages from the image, remove the matching
entry from the *IMAGE\_INSTALL* variable (see [section 3.1](#3-1)) or
add the package name to the *PACKAGE\_EXCLUDE* variable in the
*build/conf/local.conf* file.

PACKAGE\_EXCLUDE = "package1 package2"

3.3 – Add third-party packages to the image {#section3-3}
-------------------------------------------

If Yocto does not provide a package you need, chances are good that
someone else has created a Yocto recipe for it. In this section, we will
add a set of Yocto recipes (from meta-openembedded, a third-party Yocto
layer) to the Intel® Edison source. The recipes contained in this layer
allow you to add many packages in a custom Intel® Edison image. Download
the meta-openembedded layer at:
[https://github.com/openembedded/meta-openembedded](https://github.com/openembedded/meta-openembedded).
As an example, the opencv library will be added to the image. The
example assumes a standard image has been created by running the
setup.sh script and bitbake edison-image as described in the previous
sections.

1.  Get the OpenEmbedded Yocto layer collection from GitHub. We use the
    “daisy” branch matching the version of Yocto that is used by the
    Intel® Edison software. \
     cd edison-src/meta-intel-edison\
     git clone https://github.com/openembedded/meta-openembedded.git\
     cd meta-openembedded\
     git checkout daisy
2.  Tell bitbake to look for recipes contained in the new
    meta-openembedded layer. Edit the *edison-src
    /build/conf/bblayers.conf* file and append the path to the new layer
    into the BBLAYERS variable:\
     BBLAYERS ?= " \\\
     [..]\
     Full/path/to/edison-src/meta-intel-edison/meta-openembedded/\
     meta-openembedded \\ "
3.  You now can add any recipe provided by the new meta-oe layer to your
    image. As in [section 3.1](#3-1), to add opencv to the image, add it
    to the *IMAGE\_INSTALL* variable. You can do this in the *edison-src
    /meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/recipes-core/images/edison-image.bb*
    file, for example. In the particular case of opencv, to avoid
    bringing too many dependencies, you should also redefine a specific
    variable so that the library is built without gtk support:\
     IMAGE\_INSTALL += “opencv”\
     PACKAGECONFIG\_pn-opencv="eigen jpeg libav png tiff v4l”
4.  Save the file and rebuild the image as follows:\
     cd edison-src\
     source poky/oe-init-build-env\
     bitbake edison-image

3.4 – Write a Yocto recipe from scratch {#section3-4}
---------------------------------------

It is also possible to create your own Yocto recipes from scratch and
add them to the image. This section describes the required steps to add
a *hello\_world* C program to our image. The GNU *hello\_world* is a
real project that you can download from
[http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/hello/hello-2.7.tar.gz](http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/hello/hello-2.7.tar.gz).

1.  The first step is to tell bitbake where to download the code, and
    how to build the package. This is done by adding a new recipe (.bb)
    file in the right directory. To do this, create the recipe file
    *hello\_2.7.bb* in the
    *edison-src/meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/recipes-support/hello*
    directory, with the following content:\
     DESCRIPTION = “GNU Helloworld application” \
     LICENSE = "GPLv3+" \
     LIC\_FILES\_CHKSUM
    =“file://COPYING;md5=d32239bcb673463ab874e80d47fae504”\
     SRC\_URI = “\${GNU\_MIRROR}/hello/hello-\${PV}.tar.gz” \
     SRC\_URI[md5sum] = “fc01b05c7f943d3c42124942a2a9bb3a”\
     inherit autotools gettext\
     As the *hello\_world* project makes use of the autotools, it is
    enough to inherit the autotool Yocto class to tell bitbake how to
    configure and build the project. Refer to the [YDM] for details on
    the .bb syntax.
2.  The hello world recipe is ready, but you still need to add it to
    your image. To do so, add the following line to the *edison-src
    /meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/recipes-core/images/edison-image.bb*
    file:\
     IMAGE\_INSTALL += “hello”
3.  Then rebuild the image:\
     bitbake edison-image

3.5 – Add a recipe for a systemd service {#section3-5}
----------------------------------------

Developers may choose to add their own application as a service to
Intel® Edison. On the Intel® Edison platform, services are special
applications that run in the background. They are managed by *systemd*,
a system and service manager for Linux\*.

A *systemd* service is described by a .service file that needs to be
deployed on the Intel® Edison board usually in */lib/systemd/system*.
This service file contains information on how and when to start the
service, which are its dependencies, etc.

Refer to *systemd* documentation
[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/)
for an overview of the base *systemd* concepts, and a description of the
associated tools.

The Intel® Edison BSP source includes a sample recipe for creating a
*systemd* service application using Yocto. The sample is in the
*edison-src/meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/recipes-support/watchdog-sample*folder.

A system service is described by a *.service* file. Refer to the sample
file *watchdog-sample.service* at:
[http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.service.html](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.service.html).

To deploy the service from a Yocto recipe, you need to inherit the Yocto
systemd class. Refer to
[http://www.yoctoproject.org/docs/current/ref-manual/ref-manual.html\#ref-classes-systemd](http://www.yoctoproject.org/docs/current/ref-manual/ref-manual.html%23ref-classes-systemd%20).
